:sparkles: add utility to create git issues on provider repo (#9110)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: hack/tools/release/internal/update_providers/README.md

# Update CAPI Providers with CAPI beta releases

`provider_issues` is a go utility intended to open git issues on provider repos about the first beta minor release of CAPI.

## Pre-requisites

- Create a github token with the below access and export it in your environment as `GITHUB_ISSUE_OPENER_TOKEN`. Set the validity to the least number of days since this utility is a one time use tool per release cycle.
  - `repo:status` - Grants access to commit status on public and private repositories.
  - `repo_deployment` - Grants access to deployment statuses on public and private repositories.
  - `public_repo` - Grants access to public repositories

- Export `PROVIDER_ISSUES_DRY_RUN` environment variable to `"true"` to run the utility in dry run mode. Export it to `"false"` to create issues on the provider repositories. Example:

  ```sh
  export PROVIDER_ISSUES_DRY_RUN="true"
  ```

> - Export `RELEASE_SEMVER` environment variable to the CAPI release version. Only set the major and minor version. The `0-beta.0` is appended by the utility. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Export `RELEASE_SEMVER` environment variable to the CAPI release version e.g. `1.5.0`. The suffix `-beta.0` is appended by the utility. 
```

Reviewer: And change the implementation to match

Author: Acknowledged

  Example:

  ```sh

>   export RELEASE_SEMVER="1.6"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  export RELEASE_VER="1.6.0"
```

Author: Acknowledged

  ```

- Export `RELEASE_DATE` to the targeted CAPI release version date. Fetch the target date from latest [release file](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/tree/main/docs/release/releases).
  Example:

  ```sh
  export RELEASE_DATE="2023-11-28"
  ```

## How to run the tool

- Finish the pre-requites [tasks](#pre-requisites).

> - From the root of the project Cluster API, run `make provider-issues` to create issues at provider repositories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- From the root of the project Cluster API, run `make release-provider-issues-tools` to create issues at provider repositories.
```

Author: Resolved in the new push.

  - Note that the utility will  

>     - do a dry run on setting `PROVIDER_ISSUES_DRY_RUN="false"` (and will not create git issues)

Reviewer 3: I think the true and false may be flipped here

Author: Yes, good catch. Fixing it.

Author: Fixed in the new force pushed commit. Please take a look again. Thanks!
